Title: Gachatha
| Tim Wendelboe Coffee
Description: This Kenyan coffee from the Gachatha wet mill has intense fruity flavours of blackcurrants, blackberries and raisins.
Gachatha
This Kenyan coffee from the Gachatha wet mill has intense fruity flavours of blackcurrants, blackberries and raisins.
250g whole coffee beans
Quantity:
(
0
in bag)
Decrease quantity for Gachatha
Increase quantity for Gachatha
You can only add 6 bags in total
Add to cart
-
$19.00
View full details
About this coffee
Additional information
Cultivar:
SL28, SL34, Ruiru 11, Batian
Flavour notes:
Blackcurrants, blackberries & raisins
Producer:
Several smallholders farmers
Country:
Kenya
Region:
Nyeri
Harvest date:
December 2025
Process:
Washed
More about the cultivar
This coffee is produced by several hundred farmers, most of them growing the famous Kenyan SL28 and SL34 cultivars. While some have planted newer hybrids like Ruiru 11 and Batian you can clearly taste the clean and fruity flavours in this coffee that are so common for the SL cultivars.
Process
Picking and sorting
The coffee cherries are typically hand picked by the farmers and their family members. After delivering the coffee cherries to the wet mill the good coffee cherries are separated from the inferior ones by hand sorting and they are delivered in separate cherry hoppers.
Depupling, fermenting & washing
The cherries are depulped and graded by using an old Aagard disc de-pulper that uses water and gravity to sort dense beans from less dense beans. Coffee of different grades are moved to separate fermentation tanks where the parchment coffee, with it’s mucilage still on, is dry fermented for about 12-16 hours over night. After fermentation the coffee is washed in clean water and graded once again by gravity. The more dense beans are dried separately from the beans with lower density and inferior quality.
Drying
The coffees are dried on elevated drying tables, where defect parchment coffee gets sorted out by hand. Drying the coffee takes about 10 – 14 days. During daytime the coffees are raked to ensure even drying. The drying tables are covered during the hottest times of the day to avoid over heating and also at night time to prevent condensation. The drying process is finished when the moisture content in the coffee beans is between 10-12%. After drying, the coffees are stored in conditioning bins before delivery to the dry mill. The coffees we buy from Kenya are always vacuum packed before it is shipped to Norway.
Shipping
For our Norwegian customers, we offer two shipping options:
Pakke i Postkassen -
With Pakke i Postkassen, tracking is provided, and delivery is estimated within 2-3 business days.
Pakke til hentested -
The parcel can be collected from a Post in Store, Post Office, parcel locker, or parcel box. This option includes tracking, with delivery expected within 1-5 business days.
For all international orders, we ship via
DHL - Worldwide Express
. This shipping method includes tracking, and all customs duties and taxes are covered in the shipping price, ensuring there are no unexpected charges for your order or its importation into the final destination. The estimated delivery time with DHL is 1-5 business days. For more information about shipping, please visit our FAQ page
here
. If you have further questions, please contact us
.
How to brew
Filter
We strongly recommend using the correct measurements and brewing techniques when you brew our coffees. Use a digital scale both to measure water and coffee in order to get consistent results, and we recommend using between 60 to 70 grams of coffee per litre (1000g) of water, depending on the brewing method, water quality and coffee used.
Tim's notes
I have visited the Gachatha wet mill several times and even though it looks like most wet mills do in Nyeri, it has proven to be one of the best producers of high quality coffees in the area over many years. At least in my opinion. Although the wet mill mainly takes care of the processing and drying of the coffees that are delivered by it's members / farmers, a well run wet-mill is fundamental in order to be able to produce high quality coffee year after year. Apart from processing and drying the coffees well, the co-operative provides extensive training to their farmers. There is even a small demonstration plot at the wet mill where the members receive training in good agricultural practices. The co-operative also grow seedlings of both coffee trees and shade trees that are distributed to their members.
Although most members are still growing the traditional SL28 and SL34 cultivars, we know that they have been planting the new hybrid cultivars Ruiru 11 and a lot of Batian in the recent years. Still the coffee from Gachatha has the recognisable intense fruity flavours you can expect from the traditional SL-cultivars.

Embedded product variant data:
- id=52946659901653; title=Gachatha; name=Gachatha; sku=GACHATHA-FILTER-250G; price=19.00 USD; package_grams=250.000g [default_for_inference]
- id=52946659901653; title=unknown; name=unknown; sku=GACHATHA-FILTER-250G; price=19.00 USD; package_grams=250.000g
Use the selected_by_url variant when present. Otherwise use the default_for_inference variant, chosen as the package size closest to 10 oz.