Title: Echemo – Certified Organic
| Tim Wendelboe Coffee
Description: A sweet and intense coffee with lingering intense stone fruit flavours and aromatic floral notes.
Echemo – Certified Organic
A sweet and intense coffee with lingering intense stone fruit flavours and aromatic floral notes.
250g
whole coffee beans
Quantity:
(
0
in bag)
Decrease quantity for Echemo – Certified Organic
Increase quantity for Echemo – Certified Organic
You can only add 6 bags in total
Add to cart
-
$20.00
View full details
About this coffee
Cultivar:
Ethiopian heirloom from Coche forest
Flavour notes:
Floral, white tea & stone fruits
Producer:
Khalid Shifa
Country:
Ethiopia
Region:
Goma, Jimma
Process:
Washed
Harvest date:
December 2025
More about the cultivar
Khalid is mainly growing old cultivars that was planted by his grandfather many years ago. When establishing the farm, Khalid’s grandfather selected seeds from wild coffee trees from the the nearby Coche forest and the trees he planted are still producing well today.
How the coffee was produced
Picking and sorting
The coffee cherries are selectively hand picked by hired workers from the local community and sorted before they rest over night in the cherry receiving tank.
Depupling, fermenting & washing
The cherries are de-pulped in the next morning. Once de-pulped, the parchment coffee, with it’s mucilage still on, is wet fermented in clean water for about 24 hours. After fermentation the coffee is graded and washed in a washing channel in order to remove the remaining mucilage and grade out the light coffee beans.
Drying
The coffees are dried on elevated drying tables covered with shade nets where defect parchment coffee gets sorted out by hand. Drying the coffee takes about 12 - 14 days. During daytime the coffees are raked to ensure even drying. The drying process is finished when the moisture content in the coffee beans is between 9- 11,5%.
Storage, logistics and milling
After drying, the coffees are stored in air tight grain pro bags. Each daily picking is stored in separate bags until its final moisture and quality is checked and verified. Lots with acceptable moisture content and quality are then delivered to the dry mill in Addis Ababa where the coffee gets cleaned and sorted before packaging for export. The coffee is vacuum packed in sealed plastic bags before it is exported.
Shipping
For our Norwegian customers, we offer two shipping options:
Pakke i Postkassen -
With Pakke i Postkassen, tracking is provided, and delivery is estimated within 2-3 business days.
Pakke til hentested -
The parcel can be collected from a Post in Store, Post Office, parcel locker, or parcel box. This option includes tracking, with delivery expected within 1-5 business days.
For all international orders, we ship via
DHL - Worldwide Express
. This shipping method includes tracking, and all customs duties and taxes are covered in the shipping price, ensuring there are no unexpected charges for your order or its importation into the final destination. The estimated delivery time with DHL is 1-5 business days. For more information about shipping, please visit our FAQ page
here
. If you have further questions, please contact us
.
How to brew
Filter
We strongly recommend using the correct measurements and brewing techniques when you brew our coffees. Use a digital scale both to measure water and coffee in order to get consistent results, and we recommend using between 60 to 70 grams of coffee per litre (1000g) of water, depending on the brewing method, water quality and coffee used.
Tim's notes
We have been buying coffees from Khalid for many years now but it was not until my visit to his farm in November 2023 when I was able to make an impact on the quality of his coffees. During that visit I was able go through his production steps to see if we could agree upon a protocol for him to follow in order to try to elevate the quality of his coffees. As usual there were many small details that could be improved, some with small and others with major impact on the final quality. A few of the major ones included separation of every daily picking, keeping each daily lot stored in air tight grain pro bags after drying. Drying the coffees under shade nets, keeping better control of the fermentation and slightly changing the process were also part of what we changed and improved. This meant that I was able to evaluate several samples, each representing a daily picking, instead of just 2-3 samples like previous years where the coffees had been bulked together.
By doing this we were able to remove the lower qualities from the higher quality lots and in combination with better processing and drying practices the coffees really cleaned up and became more expressive. We would of course not be able to change all this in such short time had it not been for the wonderful help and follow up done by Fantanesh Keleme and the whole team at Belco in Ethiopia, who made sure Khalid understood and followed the protocols for all the coffees he produced for us.
We also milled the coffees in a smaller dry-mill this year where we were able to also vacuum pack the coffees before export. This helps preserve the coffees flavour and freshness for a much longer time.
The washed coffees from Echemo are normally very delicate and soft. I find it is like drinking a white tea with some nice notes of peach and florals. It is very different to the typical Yirgacheffe or Guji coffees from the south of Ethiopia, most likely because it is grown in a different area and is from different cultivars. Having said that, the coffees from the 2025/26 harvest is by far the most intense coffees we have bought from Echemo. The aromas and flavours are much more pronounced. Expect lingering intense stone fruit flavours and aromatic floral notes.
Like many Ethiopian and Geisha coffees, this coffee can produce a bit more fines (dust) during grinding which means it might clog your paper filter when brewing filter style like V60, Kalita or similar. Hence you might experience much longer brew times. My recommendation is to not grind coarser but rather try to agitate the slurry less while brewing and let it take some more time to finish. High extractions of this coffee only makes this coffee more aromatic and sweet.
Echemo
Khalid Shifa is the owner of Echemo. He is 3rd generation coffee farmer and inherited the 35 hectare farm from his father. Echemo is situated near the town of Agaro, in Goma in the south west part of Ethiopia.
Read more about the farm
Tim’s Choice – Coffee Subscription
With this coffee subscription, every month Tim will pick out his favourite coffees from our roastery in order to make sure that you receive something new and exciting every time. Freshly roasted coffee is sent out the first Wednesday of the month to all subscribers around the world.
Learn More

Embedded product variant data:
- id=52301102383317; title=Echemo – Certified Organic; name=Echemo – Certified Organic; sku=ECHEMO-ORGANIC-FILTER-250G; price=20.00 USD; package_grams=250.000g [default_for_inference]
- id=52301102383317; title=unknown; name=unknown; sku=ECHEMO-ORGANIC-FILTER-250G; price=20.00 USD; package_grams=250.000g
Use the selected_by_url variant when present. Otherwise use the default_for_inference variant, chosen as the package size closest to 10 oz.