Title: Pastor Ordoñez SL-28 Colombia – EN
Description: farm: Finca El Placervarietal: SL-28
processing
: washed altitude: 1800masl region: Las Chinas, San Agustin, Huila harvest: december - februaryfarm size: 4 hataste notes: rhubarb, black currants, pear, yellow plum
We were first introduced to Don Pastor and the Monkaaba Project through Semilla Coffee in 2025, when we sourced his Pink Bourbon. Despite the region's strong reputation, many smallholder farmers still lack access to stable, sustainable markets. Monkaaba was created in response, built on a shared vision of fairer trade, transparency, and dignity for producers.Planting around 500 SL-28 trees as a small trial to see how the variety performs on his farm is part of a broader move away from Caturra due to leaf rust pressure. Over the past 15 years, he has gradually introduced varieties such as Gesha, Papayo and Pink Bourbon.Cherries are first rested for 8 hours in sealed bags, then held in the depulper hopper for 12 hours before depulping. The parchment dry-ferments for 36 hours, after which the coffee is washed 3-5 times and transferred to raised beds.Drying takes 18-30 days depending on sun intensity, with a sliding roof used to control shade and slow the process when needed.
Pastor Ordoñez SL-28 Colombia
€21.50
–
€65.00
farm:
Finca El Placer
varietal:
SL-28
:
washed
altitude:
1800masl
region:
Las Chinas, San Agustin, Huila
harvest:
december - february
farm size:
4 ha
taste notes:
rhubarb, black currants, pear, yellow plum
We were first introduced to Don Pastor and the Monkaaba Project through Semilla Coffee in 2025, when we sourced his Pink Bourbon. Despite the region's strong reputation, many smallholder farmers still lack access to stable, sustainable markets. Monkaaba was created in response, built on a shared vision of fairer trade, transparency, and dignity for producers.
Planting around 500 SL-28 trees as a small trial to see how the variety performs on his farm is part of a broader move away from Caturra due to leaf rust pressure. Over the past 15 years, he has gradually introduced varieties such as Gesha, Papayo and Pink Bourbon.
Cherries are first rested for 8 hours in sealed bags, then held in the depulper hopper for 12 hours before depulping. The parchment dry-ferments for 36 hours, after which the coffee is washed 3-5 times and transferred to raised beds.Drying takes 18-30 days depending on sun intensity, with a sliding roof used to control shade and slow the process when needed.
Kogus
---
250g
1kg
Jahvatatult või uba
Uba
Presskann/Pätikas
V60/Aero
Röst
Filter
Add to cart

Embedded product variant data:
- id=unknown; title=unknown; name=unknown; sku=unknown; price=unknown; package_grams=unknown grams [default_for_inference]
Use the selected_by_url variant when present. Otherwise use the default_for_inference variant, chosen as the package size closest to 10 oz.