Title: Finca Tamana Bourbon
| Tim Wendelboe Coffee
Description: A sweet and winey coffee with notes of flowers and red fruits.
Finca Tamana Bourbon
A sweet and winey coffee with notes of flowers and red fruits.
250g
whole coffee beans
Quantity:
(
0
in bag)
Decrease quantity for Finca Tamana Bourbon
Increase quantity for Finca Tamana Bourbon
You can only add 6 bags in total
Add to cart
-
$21.00
View full details
About this coffee
Cultivar:
Bourbon, Pink Bourbon (Ethiopian)
Flavour notes:
Winey, red fruits & floral
Producer:
Elias Roa & Bellanid Sanchez
Country:
Colombia
Region:
El Pital, Huila
Process:
Washed
Harvest date:
May - June 2025
More about the cultivar
Bourbon is one of the most genetically important C. arabica cultivars in the world as many newer cultivars like Caturra, Mundo Novo, Villa Sarchi and Pacas descend from Bourbon. It was introduced from Reunion Island (former Bourbon Island) to Brazil around 1860 and quickly spread all over Central- and South-America.
Bourbon is a tall plant with low yields but has potential to produce very high quality coffee. Unfortunately it is susceptible to leaf rust which is part of the reason why most Bourbon trees in Colombia and other countries have been replaced with the Bourbon dwarf mutation Caturra and later with resistant hybrid cultivars like Castillo and Variedad Colombia.
Pink Bourbon is actually genetically close to Ethiopian cultivars and has little to do with the classic Bourbon cultivar commonly grown in Latin-America. You might say the name is misleading and some coffee people prefer to call it "Rosado" instead. The cherries are pink and cup profile is normally fruity and floral. The trees seem to be more tolerant to leaf rust.
How the coffee was produced
Picking and sorting
The coffee is selectively hand picked by hired pickers under supervision of Elias. Cherries are hand-sorted before they are processed to make sure only ripe cherries are processed together.
Depupling, fermenting & washing
The coffee cherries are stored in the cherry hopper in open air over night before the coffee is de-pulped in the morning. After de-pulping, the parchment coffee with the mucilage on is fermented for 24 hours in clean stainless steel tanks. The fermentation is stopped when the mucilage is easy to clean off and before the coffee flavour is influenced by negative fermentation flavours. The coffee is then washed in clean water by using an eco-mill which is a mechanical mucilage remover. The eco-mill reduces water waste from the average 50-100 litres of water per kilo of coffee with traditional washing methods to only 0,5 – 1 litre per kilo. After washing the coffees are soaked for 24 hours in clean water in tiled cement tanks. All ﬂoaters (beans with low density) are removed during the washing and soaking process.
Drying
After the soaking stage the clean parchment coffee is dried in parabolic dryers and drying beds covered with shade nets to prevent the beans from over heating. The coffees are raked throughout the day to ensure even drying. Drying normally takes from 20 to 30 days and once the moisture content is below 11% it gets packed and stored in air tight grain pro bags. All our coffees from Finca Tamana are vacuum packed before it is shipped to Norway.
Shipping
For our Norwegian customers, we offer two shipping options:
Pakke i Postkassen -
With Pakke i Postkassen, tracking is provided, and delivery is estimated within 2-3 business days.
Pakke til hentested -
The parcel can be collected from a Post in Store, Post Office, parcel locker, or parcel box. This option includes tracking, with delivery expected within 1-5 business days.
For all international orders, we ship via
DHL - Worldwide Express
. This shipping method includes tracking, and all customs duties and taxes are covered in the shipping price, ensuring there are no unexpected charges for your order or its importation into the final destination. The estimated delivery time with DHL is 1-5 business days. For more information about shipping, please visit our FAQ page
here
. If you have further questions, please contact us
.
How to brew
Filter
We strongly recommend using the correct measurements and brewing techniques when you brew our coffees. Use a digital scale both to measure water and coffee in order to get consistent results, and we recommend using between 60 to 70 grams of coffee per litre (1000g) of water, depending on the brewing method, water quality and coffee used.
Tim's notes
We planted these seeds of red Bourbon together with Bellanid and Elias in June 2014 and the trees were planted in a small hill at Finca Tamana in August 2015.
At the same time Elias had gotten a handfull of seeds from a neighbour of some pink Bourbon (which actually has Ethiopian genetics).
The difference is the red and pink colour of the coffee cherries when they are ripe but they also taste slightly different in the cup where the pink one is slightly more floral and the red one is slightly more fruity.
I am very happy that so far it is one of the best coffees we have tasted from Tamana. In fact Bourbon are among my all time favourite coffee cultivars but they need to be grown in good conditions to taste great.
Fortunately Tamana seems to be a place where Elias and Bellanid can produce really tasty Bourbon coffees and I have encouraged them to plant more of it so that we can buy more of this delicious and juicy coffee in the future.
Finca Tamana
Finca Tamana is a 57 hectare coffee plantation located in the mountains between El Pital and La Plata in Huila Colombia. It was acquired by Elias Roa in 2011 after being abandoned for a while and today the farm is managed by Elias and his family.
Read more about the farm
Tim’s Choice – Coffee Subscription
With this coffee subscription, every month Tim will pick out his favourite coffees from our roastery in order to make sure that you receive something new and exciting every time. Freshly roasted coffee is sent out the first Wednesday of the month to all subscribers around the world.
Learn More

Embedded product variant data:
- id=53987579199701; title=Finca Tamana Bourbon; name=Finca Tamana Bourbon; sku=TAMANA-BOURBON-FILTER-250G; price=21.00 USD; package_grams=250.000g [default_for_inference]
- id=53987579199701; title=unknown; name=unknown; sku=TAMANA-BOURBON-FILTER-250G; price=21.00 USD; package_grams=250.000g
Use the selected_by_url variant when present. Otherwise use the default_for_inference variant, chosen as the package size closest to 10 oz.